---
question: I've tried to implement CORS but it isn't working. What should I do next?
---

First make sure you've understood how CORS works. If you aren't clear on that then you'll waste a lot of time trying
to debug any problems.

There are a lot of third-party libraries available that implement CORS for various different types of server. These
can save you some of the work but it is still important to understand how the underlying CORS mechanism works or
you'll likely run into problems.

If CORS has failed you'll probably see an error message in your browser's console. If you don't see an error message
then check that you don't have any filters turned on that might be hiding the message.

If you're seeing a CORS-related error message but you aren't sure what it means then try consulting our
[list of CORS error messages](/error-messages).

The next thing to try is the *Network* tab of the developer tools. Find the request that isn't working and
check exactly what is being sent each way.

If you're seeing an `OPTIONS` request that you weren't expecting then see {% include faq-link.md faq="a313" %}.

If you're seeing the warning *'Provisional headers are shown'* then see {% include faq-link.md faq="b56b" %}.

If you think all the headers look correct then you can check them using our [CORS header checker](/header-checker).

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="ea74" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="cdc8" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="b1b0" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="a313" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="b56b" %}.
