---
question: Why am I seeing a preflight OPTIONS request when I'm not setting any custom headers?
---

The first step to debugging an unexpected preflight request is to check the request headers on the preflight request.
The headers `Access-Control-Request-Method` and `Access-Control-Request-Headers` should clarify why the browser thinks a
preflight in required.

This can be tricky as recent versions of Chrome don't show the preflight request in the developer tools. See
{% include faq-link.html faq="b56b" %} for more information.

First check `Access-Control-Request-Method`. If it's set to `GET`, `HEAD` or `POST` then that isn't the problem. Those 3
request methods are considered safe and won't trigger a preflight request. For any other values, e.g. `PUT` or `DELETE`,
that's enough to trigger a preflight request.

The other header to check is `Access-Control-Request-Headers`. This will provide a comma-separated list of header names.
These are the names of the request headers that triggered the preflight request. It won't tell you the values, just
names. If the preflight succeeds then you'll be able to find the values on the main request.

Often once you see the names of the headers it's obvious where they are coming from. But not always. A quick search
through your code can help but sometimes even that doesn't reveal the source of the rogue headers.

If you're using a library it may be automatically setting headers for you. Some common examples includes:

* `X-Requested-With` being set to `XMLHttpRequest`.
* `Content-Type`. The values `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, `multipart/form-data` and `text/plain` won't trigger a
  preflight request but any other value will. Most AJAX libraries will attempt to set the `Content-Type` header for
  requests that have a body, such as `POST` requests. Some libraries will automatically set the `Content-Type` to
  `application/json` when the body contains JSON data. For a cross-origin request that will trigger a preflight.
* `Authorization`. If you're providing options such as `username` and `password` then it is likely that the library will
  be converting them to an `Authorization` header.

If you still can't find where the custom header is coming from then you may need to step through the code. Put a
breakpoint just before your request and step into the library code to see exactly what is going on.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.html faq="b56b" %}
* {% include faq-link.html faq="b7f6" %}
