---
question: Why can't I see my request in the Network section of the developer tools?
---

First and foremost check for console errors. The simplest explanation for a missing request is that there's a bug in
your code and the request didn't actually happen.

One particularly noteworthy error shown in Chrome is:

<blockquote class="error">
  Access to XMLHttpRequest at 'localhost:8080/api' from origin 'http://localhost:3000' has been blocked by CORS policy:
  Cross origin requests are only supported for protocol schemes: http, data, chrome, chrome-extension, https.
</blockquote>

Interestingly, the same problem in Firefox doesn't show any error message, the request just fails without explanation.

The source of this problem is that the URI is missing the prefix `http://` or `https://`, so the browser interprets the
`localhost:` as being the *scheme* of the URI. {% include error-link.html message="c0d3" text="More information" %}.

However, assuming you aren't seeing that particular error...

In most browsers the developer tools must be open before you make the request, otherwise it won't be recorded.

Check you don't have any filters turned on which could be hiding your request.

In Safari and recent versions of Chrome you won't be able to see the preflight `OPTIONS` request as a separate request.
See {% include faq-link.html faq="b56b" %} for more information.

Preflight `OPTIONS` requests can also be cached, so it's possible you may not see the request you're expecting because a
cached response has been used instead. If you have access to the server logs you may be able to confirm what requests
were actually received.

It can be useful to check across multiple browsers. Using a new Incognito/Private window can also help to bypass any
caching problems that might be interfering with your requests.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.html faq="b56b" %}
