---
question: Why can't I access the response headers in Chrome's developer tools?
---

When you try to access the headers via the *Network* tab of Chrome's developer tools you may see the warning:

```
Provisional headers are shown
```

Further, the context-menu for the request won't show the options to ***Copy request headers*** or
***Copy response headers***.

There are several possible causes for this warning, some of which are not directly related to CORS. It may just mean
that the request hasn't finished yet because the server is taking a long time to respond. It'll also be shown if you try
to access files directly off the file-system without using a web-server.

However, the most likely cause for a CORS request is **Out of blink CORS**. For details see
{% include external-link.html href="https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5768642492891136" %}.

This is a recent feature and is enabled for all users by default in Chrome 80. In versions leading up to 80 it was
gradually enabled for more and more users so it is very likely enabled even if you are using an earlier version.

A consequence of this feature is that the preflight `OPTIONS` request is no longer shown as a separate request in the
developer tools. The request is still made, it just isn't shown. If that request fails you'll see the 'Provisional
headers' warning.

If you want to see the actual requests being made you have 3 options:

1. Open `chrome://flags/#out-of-blink-cors` and disable it. Note that this doesn't disable CORS, it just flips to an
   alternative implementation. Make sure you put it back when you're finished debugging CORS problems.
2. Use a debugging proxy such as Fiddler or Charles to capture the requests.
3. Use Firefox instead.

Hopefully Chrome will fix the developer tools soon so that this is no longer a problem.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.html faq="b4d0" %}
* {% include faq-link.html faq="b1b0" %}
