---
question: How can I use cURL to test a preflight request?
---

In Firefox you should be able to isolate the preflight `OPTIONS` request in the *Network* tab of the developer tools.
Right-clicking on the request should present an option to `Copy as cURL`.

To make the copied request useful you will also need to add the `-I` option. This includes the response headers in the
output.

In theory you can do the same thing in Chrome but recent versions have made it more difficult to access the `OPTIONS`
request in the developer tools. See {% include faq-link.md faq="b56b" %} for more information.

Most of the request headers included by a browser aren't necessary from a CORS perspective. Servers will usually ignore
those other headers when responding to a preflight request. Generally a much simpler cURL request will suffice:

```
curl \
  -I \
  -X OPTIONS \
  -H "Origin: http://localhost:8080" \
  -H "Access-Control-Request-Method: POST" \
  -H "Access-Control-Request-Headers: Content-Type" \
  http://localhost:3000/api
```

Breaking this down:

1. The `\` symbols are used to break the command over multiple lines. You can remove them and put the whole thing on one
   line if you prefer.
2. As mentioned previously the `-I` will output the response headers.
3. The `-X` is used to set the request method. For a preflight this must be `OPTIONS`.
4. `-H` adds a request header.
5. The values of the three headers will need changing to match the request you are trying to make. You should omit
   `Access-Control-Request-Headers` if there are no custom headers.
6. The final line is the URL of the target server. Again this is something you will need to change to match the request
   you are trying to make.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="b7f6" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="d1a6" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="b56b" %}
