---
question: What are the alternatives to CORS?
---

Before CORS existed there was JSON-P. Now that browser support for CORS is universal there's no good reason to use
JSON-P instead.

If you just need a solution locally during development then you could try using a browser extension. Typically these
extensions will intercept the server response and inject CORS headers. This may be sufficient in some cases but it's
not ideal as the requests are still made cross-origin, leading to potential problems, e.g. with cookies.

If you're trying to contact a publicly accessible server then you could try using
[CORS Anywhere](https://cors-anywhere.herokuapp.com/). It acts as a middle-man, adding in the required headers to get
CORS to work. For experiments or demos this might be a satisfactory solution but it's not a good idea to use it for a
production application.

The other alternative is to use a *reverse proxy* to channel all requests through a single server. This may be a viable
solution both during development and in production. Cross-origin restrictions don't apply if the requests all target the
same origin as the current page. The server needs to be configured to pass on relevant requests to the other server.
When the response shows up, it passes that back to the browser. As far as the browser is concerned it's just talking to
one site.

This might be a good solution but there are some drawbacks to consider:

* Many hosting solutions will not allow you to configure proxying.
* As the AJAX requests are now going through your server the load on that server will increase. The network
  infrastructure between the two servers will also have to cope with the extra demand.
* The total request time will increase.
* If you are proxying someone else's site you might be violating the terms and conditions of that site.
* The other site will see all requests as having come from your IP address. If you make too many requests you may be
  throttled or even blocked.
* If sensitive data is being transferred then you are now responsible for protecting that data while it passes through
  your server.
