---
question: What is a preflight request?
related:
  - f173
  - b667
  - b6b0
  - b040
  - cd59
  - ffcc
---

The term is a reference to the preflight checks carried out by pilots.

It is a request generated automatically by the web browser. It is used to check whether the server is willing to allow
the original request.

Before CORS existed you couldn't make AJAX requests to other servers. However, you could make requests by other means,
such as by submitting a form or including a `<script src="...">` in your page.

Those alternative means of making requests had some limitations. e.g.:

* You could only make `GET` and `POST` requests.
* There was no way to set custom request headers.
* A `POST` request could only have a `content-type` of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, `multipart/form-data` or
  `text/plain`.

When CORS was introduced it was important to ensure that no new security holes were opened up. If an AJAX request
tried to do something beyond the limitations listed above then it might expose a new security vulnerability in the
target server.

To get around this problem the browser first checks with the target server to see whether it will allow the main
request. This check takes the form of an HTTP `OPTIONS` request. Here `OPTIONS` refers to the request *method*, it's one
of the alternatives to `GET` and `POST`. The request headers of the `OPTIONS` request describe the main request to the
server and then the server responds via the response headers.

An `OPTIONS` request was chosen for this purpose because most web servers already implemented some form of `OPTIONS`
request handling and such requests should always be harmless to the server.

You don't have direct control over the preflight request, it's made automatically by the browser. It will look something
like this:

```
OPTIONS /api-path HTTP/1.1
Origin: http://localhost:8080
Access-Control-Request-Method: POST
Access-Control-Request-Headers: content-type
```

Other headers will be included but they aren't important here. Breaking this down line-by-line:

1. The path `/api-path` shown here is just an example and will match the URL path of the original request.
2. The `Origin` header will match the origin of the page making the request. See {% include faq-link.html faq="b667" %}.
   This is exactly the same as the `Origin` header that will be included on the main request.
3. The header `Access-Control-Request-Method` indicates the request method of the main request.
4. The header `Access-Control-Request-Headers` is a comma-separated list of custom headers that were set on the request.
   Headers set by the browser aren't included, so any headers listed here were set somewhere in the code that attempted
   the original request. It doesn't tell us the values of those headers, just that they were set to something other than
   their default values.

To allow this request, the server response should look like this:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://localhost:8080
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST, PUT
Access-Control-Allow-Headers: content-type
```

Again, breaking this down line-by-line:

1. The status code must be in the range `200`-`299` for a preflight request to succeed.
2. Just like for the main request, `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` must either match the `Origin` or be `*`.
3. The response header `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` is a comma-separated list of allowed request methods. `GET`,
   `POST` and `HEAD` requests are always allowed, even if they aren't included in the list.
4. `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` is also a comma-separated list. For the request to be allowed it must include all of
   the headers that were listed in `Access-Control-Request-Headers`.

If any of the CORS response headers are dynamically generated based on the request headers then those request headers
should be listed in the `Vary` response header. e.g. `Vary: Origin`. This helps to avoid caching problems.

No request body will be sent for a preflight request and the response body will be ignored.
