---
question: Does CORS support HTTP redirects?
---

Yes. CORS requests do support HTTP redirects so long as all the requests include the relevant CORS response headers.

When we say *'HTTP redirects'* we mean using status codes such as `301`, `302`, `307` or `308` in conjunction with a
`Location` response header. For a typical AJAX request these redirects are performed automatically by the browser
without any explicit handling in client-side JavaScript.

The specification for CORS has gradually become more permissive towards redirects. The information presented here
reflects what is currently implemented in browsers but it is likely to continue to change.

A preflight `OPTIONS` request must not attempt a redirect. Instead the preflight should just return the usual response
headers required for the CORS checks to pass. The redirect can then be performed on the main request.

A potentially problematic scenario occurs if the redirect is to a URL with a different origin from the URL that was
originally requested. This is allowed but when the browser attempts the new request it will set the `Origin` header to
`null`. This is not a bug, it is a security precaution included by design.

Even if you aren't intentionally using redirects there are two common ways that they can creep in:

1. Redirecting from `http` to `https`.
2. Redirecting to add or remove a trailing URL slash. e.g. A server may redirect `http://example.com/api/users` to
   `http://example.com/api/users/` or vice-versa.

If not done correctly this can change the request method to `GET`, which can trigger other errors such as a `405`
response from the server. Inadvertently changing to a `GET` request will also cause the request body to be dropped.

Often the simplest solution is to use the final URL instead and skip the redirect altogether.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="fe2a" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="e21d" %}
