---
question: Why is CORS so complicated?
---

How complicated you find CORS depends on your starting point.

If you're expecting cross-origin requests to be exactly the same as same-origin requests then it will definitely seem
complicated. Unfortunately, the same-origin policy is very much needed, it is not just browser makers worrying about
nothing.

It's quite likely that your first encounter with CORS was an error message in your browser's console. Blissfully
ignorant of its significance you probably expected that there'd be a nice, easy fix.

The good news is that CORS does provide a solution. Prior to CORS being introduced you'd have been in real trouble,
fumbling with JSON-P for a bit before giving up and throwing your whole project in the bin.

The bad news is that CORS had to be shoe-horned into the existing design of the web without breaking anything or
introducing significant new security problems.

If you aren't really familiar with the inner workings of HTTP then CORS may be dragging you into unknown territory. HTTP
headers and `OPTIONS` requests nicely solve the problem but if you haven't come across the basic concepts before then
they make the CORS learning curve seem a lot steeper than it actually is.

There are several factors that contributed extra complexity to the design of CORS:

* Security must be backwards compatible with servers that don't understand CORS.
* Special cases have been added to make simple scenarios easier. However, if you want to understand the full picture
  then those special cases are just extra stuff to learn.
* There was a desire to support browser caching, especially for the preflight request. This is one reason why the
  preflight response requires multiple headers and not just a simple yes-or-no header.

If you're new to CORS and getting a bit overwhelmed then it may help to reset your expectations. Be patient and allow
yourself some time to find out how CORS works. If you try to rush it you'll just get lost.

Remember that CORS exists because of very real security concerns. You need to make an informed decision about exactly
how much of that security you want to turn off.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="f173" %}
