---
question: How can I avoid the preflight OPTIONS request?
---

#### Caching

If you want to cut down the number of preflight requests you should consider using caching. Preflight caching is
controlled using the response header `Access-Control-Max-Age`.

```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://localhost:8080
Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Authorization, Content-Type
Access-Control-Max-Age: 3600
Vary: Origin
```

The `Vary` header is used to identify which request headers were used to generate the response. The cached response
should only be used if the values of those headers are unchanged.

Most browsers will limit the caching time for preflight requests to a few hours, depending on the browser.

The requests must share the same URL to get any benefit from caching. If your URLs are all slightly different, possibly
because they include resource ids, then you may want to consider moving those differences into the request body instead.

#### Completely avoiding a preflight

Avoiding preflight requests is primarily a server-side problem and may require significant architectural changes
depending on how your application is structured. Ultimately the server dictates the form of the requests and if those
requests require a preflight then there's nothing the client-side code can do to avoid it.

First you'll need to limit requests to `GET`, `HEAD` or `POST`. If you're using other request methods such as `PUT` or
`DELETE` then you'll need to change them to `POST`.

Some custom request headers are allowed without triggering a preflight, though generally they're not the most useful
headers. If you have an existing request that is triggering a preflight then the simplest way to confirm which headers
are to blame is to check the value of `Access-Control-Request-Headers`. See {% include faq-link.html faq="b040" %} for
more information.

Most custom headers can either be removed or moved into the request body instead.

To avoid a preflight request the `Content-Type` header must be one of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`,
`multipart/form-data` or `text/plain`. If the body of your `POST` requests is not in one of these three formats then
you'll need to lie in order to avoid a preflight. If you're using a third-party library to parse the content then it may
need reconfiguring to cope with the misleading `Content-Type` header. This can be difficult if your server supports
multiple types of content. You could use different paths for different formats, or use a URL query parameter to pass the
true `Content-Type`. Either way you may find yourself needing to be inventive to get the parser to understand which
requests it should parse.

The `Authorization` header can also be problematic as it is commonly used by third-party libraries. Whether this is a
solvable problem will depend on the library you're using.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.html faq="b7f6" %}
* {% include faq-link.html faq="b040" %}
