---
question: How do the Authorization and WWW-Authenticate headers work with CORS?
---

The `Authorization` request header can be set as a custom header on a request and, just like any other custom header, it
would trigger a preflight `OPTIONS` request.

However, a bit like the `Cookie` header, the `Authorization` header can also be included automatically by the browser as
part of *HTTP authentication*. Ignoring the cross-origin aspect for a moment, the steps for this form of authentication
are:

* The browser requests a URL.
* The server responds with a `401` status code and a `WWW-Authenticate` header indicating the authentication scheme to
  be used.
* The browser prompts the user for credentials.
* The original request is retried with the credentials encoded into the `Authorization` header.
* Subsequent requests to the same URL will automatically included the `Authorization` header.

For cross-origin requests the `withCredentials` flag must be set to `true`. In most browsers that should enable HTTP
authentication, the exception being Safari.

<!-- TODO: Investigate Safari more -->

If the `withCredentials` flag is not set, or the user does not provide credentials, then the original `401` response will
be the response exposed via JavaScript.

If a preflight `OPTIONS` request is required then this must succeed without any authentication.

Oddly, the `401` response does not need to include the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` header for the browser to
prompt for credentials. However, it should be included anyway in case the user declines the credentials prompt. In that
scenario the `401` becomes the exposed response and then `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` is required.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="b7f6" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="fcd5" %}
