---
question: Why am I seeing '405 - Method Not Allowed'?
---

There are a few reasons why you might be seeing this error.

A `405` status code usually indicates that a request is using the wrong request method. e.g. Using `POST` when it should
be `GET`. That applies to any request, not just CORS requests. Before you do anything else it is worth quickly checking
which request method the server is expecting and making sure that you've used the correct one when making the request.
Check the URL too, make sure you haven't copied it from somewhere else without updating it.

From a CORS perspective the most likely cause of problems is the preflight `OPTIONS` request. That's usually pretty easy
to identify as you'll see an error message in the browser console telling you that the preflight request has failed.
Typically the problem is simply that the server hasn't been configured to support a preflight `OPTIONS` request. That
may be a server bug, or it may be that you're triggering an unnecessary preflight. See
{% include faq-link.md faq="b7f6" %}. If you have control over the server then also consult the documentation for your
server-side stack to check what is required to enable a CORS preflight request.

Next, use the *Network* tab of the developer tools in your browser to check exactly which request is failing. Pay
particularly close attention to the request method, don't just assume it's what you wrote in your code. Some browsers
have better developer tools than others, so if you aren't getting clear information try multiple browsers.

In particular, recent changes to Chrome have made it much more difficult to debug these kinds of problems. See
{% include faq-link.md faq="b56b" %}.

If you have the option of checking the server logs then that may also help to provide important clues.

HTTP redirects are also a common source of `405` errors, though not specifically related to CORS. This includes
redirecting from `http` to `https` or redirects to add or remove trailing slashes. Depending on how this is implemented
it can cause the request to change method to `GET`, causing a `405`.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="c320" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="b7f6" %}
* {% include faq-link.md faq="b56b" %}
