---
question: Does using HTTPS have any effect on CORS?
---

Yes.

#### Requests from HTTPS

If the page making the request is using HTTPS then the target URL must also be HTTPS. Trying to access resources using
`http` from an `https` page is known as *mixed content* and will be blocked the browser. It won't even attempt the
request and there should be a clear error message in the console.

Most browsers relax the rules for CORS requests to `localhost` and `127.0.0.1`, so it is possible to make requests
locally using `http`. This is considered lower risk as the request never actually leaves the user's device. Safari
currently doesn't implement this special case and will block any request from `https` to `http`.

#### Requests to HTTPS

If the requesting page has a scheme of `http` then it can make CORS requests to both `http` and `https` URLs.

Invalid SSL certificates, especially self-signed certificates, are a common problem when using CORS. These can result in
requests failing for no apparent reason. For a *same-origin* request the certificate of the requesting page will be the
same as the requested URL, so any problems with the certificate will have been handled as soon as the page was opened.
For a CORS request the certificate won't be checked until the request is made, so it fails quietly in the background.

Usually the easiest way to check the certificate is to go directly to the URL in a browser. Even though this won't be
using CORS it will still be sufficient to check that the certificate is valid. With a self-signed certificate this will
allow you to add an exception so that the certificate will be trusted in future.

#### Cookies

As of Chrome 80, cookies with `SameSite=None` must also set the `Secure` directive. So if you need *cross-domain*
cookies you'll need to use HTTPS.

Note that a cookie's *domain* is not quite the same thing as *origin*, so it is possible to have cross-origin cookies
without HTTPS if the domains match.

For more information see {% include faq-link.md faq="cdc8" %}.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="cdc8" %}
