---
question: What happens when a CORS request fails?
---

The most obvious sign that a request has failed due to CORS is an error message in the browser console. This will
usually give a clear indication of why it failed. For more information about CORS error messages in Chrome see our
[list of CORS error messages](/error-messages).

It's important to appreciate that CORS error messages come from the browser, not from the server. The browser applies
the CORS checks to the response headers after a response is successfully received.

A notable exception is the message `Reason: CORS request did not succeed`, which is shown in Firefox. If you just see
that message then it is possible that the request failed at the network level. For example, you will see that message if
the target server couldn't be contacted. The message is somewhat misleading as CORS is not really relevant to the
problem. The equivalent message in Chrome doesn't mention CORS and is the same message that would be shown for a
same-origin request.

The *Network* section of the browser's developer tools won't tell you directly whether the request failed a CORS check,
though that is usually the easiest way to check the relevant headers.

If a CORS preflight `OPTIONS` request fails then the main request won't occur.

In some browsers the preflight request won't be shown separately in the developer tools. Any console errors should make
it clear whether it was the preflight request that failed.

In your JavaScript code all CORS failures will be presented the same way. You'll see a status code of `0` and you won't
be able to access the response headers or the response body. You won't have access to any helpful error messages as
exposing those error messages is regarded as a security risk.

In some cases cookies will be set even though the request failed a CORS check. However, unless the cookie domain is a
match for the current page you won't be able to access those cookies via `document.cookie`.

A preflight `OPTIONS` request is expected to return a status code in the range `200` to `299`, otherwise it will fail.
However, the main CORS request can use status codes just like any other AJAX request. A status code that indicates an
error will not cause the CORS checks to fail and, if the CORS checks pass, that status code will be accessible in your
JavaScript code.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.md faq="b4d0" %}
