---
question: How does CORS work?
---

Let's start with the basics.

There are two questions that the browser needs to answer:

1. Are you allowed to make the request at all?
2. Are you allowed to access the response?

There are some requests that are considered simple enough and safe enough that the first stage is skipped. We'll come
back to that later.

For the second question, the browser assumes by default that you can't access the response for a cross-origin request.
That includes the response body, the response headers and the status code.

In addition to the usual request headers the browser will also include an `Origin` header, containing the origin of the
page making the request. Note this is added automatically by the browser, you can't add it yourself.

The server then needs to grant permission for the response to be exposed to the client-side code. It does this by
including the response header `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`. The value of this header must be identical to the value of
the `Origin` header it received. It can also use the special value `*` to allow any origin. Any other value will cause
the CORS check to fail in the browser.

<!-- TODO: Put an example request/response here -->

It is really important to understand that `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` is a *response* header sent by the server. It is
***NOT*** a request header. It is a very common mistake to try to set this header on the request, which won't help at
all.

```js
// Don't copy this code, it is wrong!!!
axios.get(url, {
  headers: {
    // This is in the wrong place. It needs to be on the server.
    'Access-Control-Allow-Origin': '*'
  }
})
```

In addition, only a limited subset of the response headers will be exposed by default. See
{% include faq-link.html faq="b1b0" %} for more information.

If a request is not deemed 'simple' and 'safe' then it must first undergo a preflight check to determine whether to
allow the request at all. See {% include faq-link.html faq="b7f6" %} for more information.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.html faq="b667" %}
* {% include faq-link.html faq="b1b0" %}
* {% include faq-link.html faq="b7f6" %}
