---
question: Does CORS work with localhost?
---

Yes. From a CORS perspective `localhost` and `127.0.0.1` are almost the same as any other domain or IP address.

The server you are attempting to contact may choose to allow requests only from specific origins. CORS itself doesn't
make a special case for `localhost` but a server can single out `localhost` if it so wishes.

Typically `localhost` is only used during development. This can lead to a perception that `localhost` is somehow the
cause of a CORS problem. In reality it's a case of correlation not implying causation. Some more likely causes are:

1. A bug in the code or CORS configuration.
2. Caching, making a problem appear to stick around even after it is fixed.
3. An invalid or self-signed SSL certificate.
4. Not binding the target server to `localhost`. Try contacting the server directly to be sure it is accessible
   via `localhost`.
5. A browser plugin, debugging proxy or some other piece of development trickery.

Far from `localhost` having tighter CORS restrictions, in some cases it actually has weaker restrictions (see *HTTPS*
and *Cookies* below). This can cause problems in production that didn't occur during development. To avoid such problems
you may want to consider adding aliases to your `hosts` file so that you can use URLs during development that are a
closer match to the production URLs.

#### HTTPS

There is a special case in some browsers for mixed content. If an `https` page attempts a request to an `http` page then
this is usually blocked. However, if the target page is using `localhost` then a CORS request is attempted.

See {% include faq-link.html faq="e96b" %} for more information but, in short, if you want to use `https` for the
requesting page you'll also need to use `https` for the target server.

#### Cookies

Consider this relatively common scenario.

During development you might be running both servers on `localhost`. Let's say the UI is hosted at
`http://localhost:8080` with a data server at `http://localhost:3000`.

You open `http://localhost:8080` in your web browser and you're presented with a login page. You enter your username and
password and the page sends a login request to `http://localhost:3000`. This returns a cookie using the `Set-Cookie`
header. The request had `withCredentials` set to `true` and the cookie seems to work as expected.

When this site reaches production the UI is hosted from `http://www.example.com` and the data server is at
`http://api.example.com`. Suddenly the cookies stop working.

The problem is that cookies are tied to a *domain*. Working locally both `localhost:8080` and `localhost:3000` are
considered to have a cookie domain of `localhost`. So even though it was a *cross-origin* request, from a cookie
perspective it's considered 'same site'.

For the production site the cookie's domain would default to `api.example.com`, which is not a match for
`www.example.com`. As they are both subdomains of `example.com` this can easily be fixed by explicitly setting the
`Domain` directive on the cookie. However, the key point to note is that production behaves differently from the
development environment.

If you want to know more about working with cookies and CORS see {% include faq-link.html faq="cdc8" %}.

---

Related:

* {% include faq-link.html faq="e96b" %}
* {% include faq-link.html faq="cdc8" %}
