---
message: The 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header contains the invalid value 'xyz'.
---

This error indicates that the server response did include the header `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` but it contained an
invalid value. Here *invalid* doesn't just mean that it doesn't match the requested `Origin` but, more than that, it
doesn't appear to even be a valid origin value. Origin values should parse as valid URIs.

Some examples of values that will give this error:

```
xyz
example.com
http://example.com:67890
```

The last example only fails because the port number is too large to be valid.

This message is intended to provide extra feedback to the developer but ultimately it isn't really a separate case. The
`Origin` request header will always be well-formed so if the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header can't be parsed it
can't be a match.

This is very similar to {% include error-link.md message="f6e6" text="another error message" %}. That error relates to
the preflight `OPTIONS` request, whereas this error specifically concerns the main request.

If you are making the request using the `fetch` API then you'll also see the following text at the end of the error
message:

<blockquote class="error">
  Have the server send the header with a valid value, or, if an opaque response serves your needs, set the request's
  mode to 'no-cors' to fetch the resource with CORS disabled.
</blockquote>

For more information about opaque responses see {% include faq-link.md faq="dfdb" %}. Using an opaque response will
suppress the error message but it won't allow you to access the response details.
